# Artificial-Neural-Network-Modeling-Results-

Introduction 
Artificial Neural Networks are similar in structure and functioning to the Biological Neural Networks (BNNs). The basic computing elements that perform data processing in Artificial Neural Network are the neurons. Each neuron in the network receives input from many other neurons. It changes its internal state (or activation) based on the present input. Every neuron sends its output to many other neurons. The neurons learn from their experimental data to detain the linear and non linear trends in the complex data, so that they provide reliable predictions for even new situations containing partial information. The processing ability of the network is stored in the interneuron connection strengths called weights. The weights are acquired through an adaptation process.  The usage of ANN models to predict the highly desirable compressive strength of SIFCON has proved to be more advantageous over the conventional methods  for providing  a solution to inverse problems that are non linear in nature. Multilayer feed forward back propagation neural networks have been in use for predicting the strength characteristics of concrete, slump of ready mixed concrete and high strength concrete (Dias and Pooliyadda, 2001). In this chapter, a new feed forward and back propagation ANN design using three types of optimisation techniques namely Levenberg-Marquardt, Steepest descent, Genetic and Polynomial curve fitting  model with R21 are proposed for accurate prediction of strength characteristics of SIFCON concrete such as compressive, split tensile and flexural strengths having different fibre fractions and different curing periods. 
